Thousands of demonstrators have marched through London to protest the war in Iraq and demand the withdrawal of British troops from that country .
Families of soldiers killed in the conflict joined the protesters who carried banners with such slogans as ' Bush Number One Terrorist ' and ' Stop the Bombings . '
They marched from the Houses of Parliament to a rally in Hyde Park .
Police put the number of marchers at 10,000 while organizers claimed it was 1,00,000 .
The protest comes on the eve of the annual conference of Britain 's ruling Labor Party in the southern English seaside resort of Brighton .
The party is divided over Britain 's participation in the Iraq conflict and the continued deployment of 8,500 British troops in that country .
The London march came ahead of anti-war protests today in other cities , including Rome , Paris , and Madrid .
The International Atomic Energy Agency is to hold second day of talks in Vienna Wednesday on how to respond to Iran 's resumption of low-level uranium conversion .
Iran this week restarted parts of the conversion process at its Isfahan nuclear plant .
Iranian officials say they expect to get access to sealed sensitive parts of the plant Wednesday , after an IAEA surveillance system begins functioning .
The step will allow the facility to operate at full capacity .
The European Union , with U.S. backing , has threatened to refer Iran to the U.N. Security Council , which could impose sanctions if it finds Tehran has violated the Nuclear Non-Proliferation treaty .
Iran 's new President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad said Tuesday that European incentives aimed at persuading Iran to end its nuclear fuel program are an insult to the Iranian nation .
Two Germans and four Nigerian oil workers were kidnapped by armed militants during a raid on a boat in Nigeria 's southern oil-rich Delta region .
An official with the German firm Bilfinger Berger , Thomas Horbach , said the gunmen stopped the supply boat Wednesday as it sailed from Delta State to Bayelsa State to inspect an offshore oil field owned by Royal-Dutch Shell .
The German firm works as a sub-contractor for Shell .
Militant groups frequently attack oil operations in the Niger Delta to demand social services and better job opportunities from multinational companies .
Poor residents often complain they have been cheated out of the huge riches extracted from their tribal lands - where the bulk of Nigeria 's 2.3 million barrels of petroleum are pumped daily .
Suspected Islamist rebels have fired mortar shells at the palace used by Somalia 's interim President Abdullahi Yusuf Ahmad .
It was not immediately clear if the president was in the palace in Mogadishu when the attack occurred or if anyone was hurt .
Local news reports said at least five mortar shells hit the palace compound and other mortars were fired elsewhere in Mogadishu Wednesday .
The attacks occurred after the government said it will go ahead with a reconciliation conference to which more than 1,300 Somali elders , warlords and politicians are invited .
Iraqi military officials say tanks and troops have arrived in the northern city Mosul for a new offensive against al Qaida in Iraq fighters .
Officials will not say how many troops have arrived in the Sunni Arab and Kurdish city , where bombings last week killed at least 34 people and wounded more than 200 .
U.S. commanders have not explained how American forces will participate in the offensive .
Officials say al Qaida in Iraq fighters have fled successful campaigns against them in Anbar province and Baghdad to other northern provinces .
Mosul is the largest city north of Baghdad and has long been a stronghold of Sunni militant fighters .
In other violence , U.S. officials said one American soldier was killed while on patrol in Baghdad Sunday .
Egyptian police have arrested at least 16 members of the opposition Muslim Brotherhood as parts of the country prepare for parliamentary runoff elections Saturday .
The arrests occurred Friday in Alexandria .
A spokesman for the Brotherhood said the arrests are an attempt to cut the Brotherhood off from its supporters and punishment for winning parliamentary seats in earlier elections .
The Muslim Brotherhood has tripled its strength in parliament in recent elections , raising the party 's total to 47 seats .
In Saturday 's elections , voters will cast ballots in nine provinces where no candidate won a majority in the previous round of voting .
The Muslim Brotherhood is banned as a political party , but it endorses so-called independent candidates whose allegiance to the party is known to voters .
Hardline lawmakers in Pakistan 's North West Frontier Province have pushed through a law that aims to ensure ' Islamic correctness ' in public places and establishes a morality police to enforce decent behavior .
A six-party coalition of religious based parties , the Mutahida Majlis-e-Amal , dominates the provincial assembly , so the bill was easily passed Thursday by a vote of 68-34 .
The provincial governor must still sign the bill before it becomes law , a step seen only as a formality .
The proposed law calls for setting up a ' religious police force ' to make sure people adhere to Islamic values in public places , and entertainment outlets close during weekly Friday prayers .
Violators could be jailed for up to six months .
The opposition has denounced the measure , comparing it to the draconian rule of the former Taleban in neighboring Afghanistan .
British police say they have arrested a man who dressed as suicide bomber at a demonstration against the publication of cartoons depicting Islam 's Prophet Muhammad .
Bedfordshire police said Tuesday that Omar Khayam was arrested in Bedford for breaching the conditions of his parole .
Police said the British Home Office sought an investigation of Khayam 's behavior after he was photographed last week at a demonstration dressed in fatigues , a black cap , and a bulky belt .
A Home Office spokesman told the Associated Press that if the behavior of a paroled offender gives cause for concern , he can be sent back to prison .
The AP also reports Khayam has been on parole from prison since last year after serving half his six-year sentence for drug dealing .
Pakistani officials say unidentified gunmen have killed three people , including a former government minister , in a semi-autonomous tribal region bordering Afghanistan .
The officials say prominent tribal leader Malik Faridullah Khan was traveling in South Waziristan Sunday when his vehicle was ambushed in the Kani Wam area .
His driver and a tribal elder were also killed .
No one has claimed responsibility for the killings .
The ambush came a day after a commander of Pakistani troops said the army has almost completely eliminated militants in South Waziristan .
The area became a refuge for many al-Qaida and Taleban fighters after the Taleban government was ousted in Afghanistan in 2001 .
A senior Pakistani military official says Pakistan wants to put what he calls the ' sordid chapter ' of proliferation by one of its top scientists behind it and build civilian nuclear ties with the United States .
But he says Pakistan is not ready to make the nuclear scientist , Abdul Qadeer Khan , available for direct questioning over his sale of nuclear parts and secrets to states including Iran , Libya and North Korea .
He said there are reasons of national sensitivities for not making him available .
The Pakistani official was giving a background briefing to a small group of reporters in Washington .
Khan admitted in 2004 that he operated a worldwide clandestine network to sell nuclear technology in the black market .
He was placed under house arrest in Islamabad , but not jailed because he is considered the father of Pakistan 's nuclear bomb .
U.S. Army officials said Wednesday that they will not renew a controversial multi-billion dollar contract with the Halliburton company to provide logistical support to U.S. troops in Iraq and elsewhere .
Halliburton has been providing a long list of services , from meals to communication , for the military for several years .
Critics of Halliburton include auditors and congressional Democrats .
They say the company has produced some shoddy work and charges too much money .
The company strongly denies the allegations .
When the huge contract is put out for re-bidding , several companies will get a chance to compete for portions of the work .
Representatives from the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Business Advisory Council are holding meetings this week to finalize their annual report for APEC leaders who will hold a summit on September 8 and 9 .
VOA 's Nancy-Amelia Collins reports from Sydney .
Energy , security , climate change , the World Trade Organization 's stalled negotiations , and investment are all expected to be among the major topics in the annual report of the APEC Business Advisory Council , known as ABAC .
Tim Harcourt , the chief economist of the Australian Trade Commission , says ABAC plays an important role by informing governments where there are problems .
' The most important thing the business groups can do is to tell the governments where there are logjams , where there are obstacles , where things can improve , ' Harcourt said .
' I think actually ABAC has played a pretty good leadership on that in talking about trade facilitation and basically making sure standards are consistent and harmonious across the region . '
ABAC comprises up to three members of the private sector of each of the 21 economies that make up APEC .
It meets three times a year .
It was made a permanent body in 1995 to provide an independent business perspective within APEC .
Members represent a range of business sectors , including medium and small businesses .
ABAC says there is a need for businesses to improve energy efficiency and to encourage conservation practices , and is expected to include this in its annual report .
Harcourt , of the Australian Trade Commission , says the ABAC report will also discuss ways to enhance regional cooperation .
' I reckon they 'll talk a little bit about customs and quarantine , a little bit about having consistent security arrangements around the region , ' Harcourt said .
' And I think they 'll want a one-stop shop in terms of combining security , immigration , customs , and quarantine together ... just to make sure it 's more streamlined and provides more certainty . '
ABAC is the only non-governmental body that has an official role and formal dialogue with the leaders of the APEC economies .
It will present its annual report at the APEC leaders meeting on Saturday .
Sudan 's government says it will order troops to end attacks immediately in Darfur , and is asking rebels to do the same .
Foreign Minister Mustafa Osman Ismail says Sudanese troops will also withdraw to positions held before an April cease-fire , if rebels in the western region agree to stop attacks .
Mr. Ismail announced the decision after meeting with officials from the United Nations and African Union in Khartoum Sunday .
In recent weeks , AU officials say Sudanese troops and rebels have repeatedly violated the April truce .
Saturday , the head of AU forces in Darfur accused Sudanese government helicopters of bombing rebel sites in the South Darfur village of Labado .
Khartoum says troops were defending their positions from rebel attacks .
Aid workers say some relief efforts have been suspended in South Darfur due to recent attacks .
Indonesian police have arrested three men in connection with the October 1 Bali bombings that left 23 people dead .
Indonesian police said Wednesday the men were flown to Bali from neighboring Java island for questioning at Bali police headquarters .
Australian and French news agencies say at least one of the men arrested ( Cholily ) was captured during a series of counter-terrorism raids last week in Indonesia .
The raids ended with the death of alleged extremist bombmaker Azahari bin Husin .
Indonesian authorities blame Azahari bin Husin for orchestrating last month 's attacks in Bali as well as the 2002 Bali bombings that killed more than 200 people .
Gunmen have shot and killed a Roman Catholic nun and her bodyguard at the hospital where she worked in Islamist-controlled Mogadishu , Somalia .
Some witnesses to the Sunday shooting said they feared the attack was linked to Muslim anger toward Pope Benedict .
Two men with pistols attacked the nun , Sister Leonella Sgorbati , after she finished teaching a medical school class at the hospital in southern Mogadishu .
Officials say one suspect was arrested .
In Rome , a Vatican spokesman deplored the attack and said he hoped it was an isolated event , and not irrationality arising from comments made by the Pope which angered some Muslims .
Authorities in Mogadishu have not determined a motive for the shooting .
The pope has said he meant no offense to Muslims when he quoted a 14 century Byzantine emperor as saying some teachings of the Prophet Muhammed brought evil to the world .
Pakistani forces have targeted militants in the northwest for a third day , launching airstrikes that they say killed at least nine suspected insurgents .
Helicopter gunships Saturday pounded militant hideouts in the Orakzai tribal region , where many Taliban militants are believed to have fled to avoid an earlier military offensive in nearby South Waziristan .
