He had obtained and provisioned a veteran ship called the Discovery and had recruited a crew of twenty-one , the largest he had ever commanded . 
The purpose of this fourth voyage was clear . 
A century of exploration had established that a great land mass , North and South America , lay between Europe and the Indies . 
One by one , the openings in the coast that promised a passage through had been explored and discarded . 
In fact , Hudson's sail up the Great North River had disposed of one of the last hopes . 
But there remained one mysterious , unexplored gap , far to the north . 
Nearly twenty-five years before , Captain John Davis had noted , as he sailed near the Arctic Circle , `` a very great gulf , the water whirling and roaring , as it were the meeting of tides '' . 
He named this opening , between Baffin Island and Labrador , the `` Furious Overfall '' . 
( Later , it was to be called Hudson Strait . 
) In 1602 , George Waymouth , in the same little Discovery that Hudson now commanded , had sailed 300 miles up the strait before his frightened men turned the ship back . 
Hudson now proposed to sail all the way through and test the seas beyond for the long-sought waterway . 
Even Hudson , experienced in Arctic sailing and determined as he was , must have had qualms as he slid down the Thames . 
Ahead were perilous , ice-filled waters . 
On previous voyages , it had been in precisely such dangerous situations that he had failed as a leader and captain . 
On the second voyage , he had turned back at the frozen island of Novaya Zemlya and meekly given the crew a certificate stating that he did so of his own free will -- which was obviously not the case . 
On the third voyage , a near-mutiny rising from a quarrel between Dutch and English crew members on the Half Moon had almost forced him to head the ship back to Amsterdam in Mid-Atlantic . 
Worse , his present crew included five men who had sailed with him before . 
Of only one could he be sure -- young John Hudson , his second son . 
The mate , Robert Juet , who had kept the journal on the Half Moon , was experienced -- but he was a bitter old man , ready to complain or desert at any opportunity . 
Philip Staffe , the ship's carpenter , was a good worker , but perversely independent . 
Arnold Lodley and Michael Perse were like the rest -- lukewarm , ready to swing against Hudson in a crisis . 
But men willing to sail at all into waters where wooden ships could be crushed like eggs were hard to find . 
Hudson knew he had to use these men as long as he remained an explorer . 
And he refused to be anything else . 
It is believed that Hudson was related to other seafaring men of the Muscovy Company and was trained on company ships . 
He was a Londoner , married , with three sons . 
( The common misconception that he was Dutch and that his first name was Hendrik stem from Dutch documents of his third voyage . 
) In 1610 , Hudson was probably in his early forties , a good navigator , a stubborn voyager , but otherwise fatally unsuited to his chosen profession . 
Hudson's first error of the fourth voyage occurred only a few miles down the Thames . 
There at the river's edge waited one Henry Greene , whom Hudson listed as a `` clerk '' . 
Greene was in actuality a young ruffian from Kent , who had broken with his parents in order to keep the company he preferred -- pimps , panders and whores . 
He was not the sort of sailor Hudson wanted his backers to see on board and he had Greene wait at Gravesend , where the Discovery picked him up . 
For the first three weeks , the ship skirted up the east coast of Great Britain , then turned westward . 
On May 11 , she reached Iceland . 
Poor winds and fog locked her up in a harbor the crew called `` Lousie Bay '' . 
The subsequent two-weeks wait made the crew quarrelsome . 
With Hudson looking on , his protege Greene picked a fight with the ship's surgeon , Edward Wilson . 
The issue was settled on shore , Greene winning and Wilson remaining ashore , determined to catch the next fishing boat back to England . 
With difficulty , Hudson persuaded him to rejoin the ship , and they sailed from Iceland . 
Early in June , the Discovery passed `` Desolation '' ( southern Greenland ) and in mid-June entered the `` Furious Overfall '' . 
Floating ice bore down from the north and west . 
Fog hung over the route constantly . 
Turbulent tides rose as much as fifty feet . 
The ship's compass was useless because of the nearness of the magnetic North Pole . 
As the bergs grew larger , Hudson was forced to turn south into what is now Ungava Bay , an inlet of the Great Strait . 
After finding that its coasts led nowhere , however , he turned north again , toward the main , ice-filled passageway -- and the crew , at first uneasy , then frightened , rebelled . 
The trouble was at least partly Juet's doing . 
For weeks he had been saying that Hudson's idea of sailing through to Java was absurd . 
The great , crushing ice masses coming into view made him sound like the voice of pure reason . 
A group of sailors announced to Hudson that they would sail no farther . 
Instead of quelling the dissension , as many captains of the era would have done ( Sir Francis Drake lopped a man's head off under similar circumstances ) , Hudson decided to be reasonable . 
He went to his cabin and emerged carrying a large chart , which he set up in view of the crew . 
Patiently , he explained what he knew about their course and their objectives . 
When Hudson had finished , the `` town meeting '' broke down into a general , wordy argument . 
One man remarked that if he had a hundred pounds , he would give ninety of them to be back in England . 
Up spoke carpenter Staffe , who said he wouldn't give ten pounds to be home . 
The statement was effective . 
The meeting broke up . 
Hudson was free to sail on . 
All through July the Discovery picked her way along the 450-mile-long strait , avoiding ice and rocky islands . 
On August 3 , two massive headlands reared out of the mists -- great gateways never before , so far as Hudson knew , seen by Europeans . 
To starboard was a cape a thousand feet high , patched with ice and snow , populated by thousands of screaming sea birds . 
To port was a point 200 feet high rising behind to a precipice of 2,000 feet . 
Hudson named the capes Digges and Wolstenholme , for two of his backers . 
Hudson pointed the Discovery down the east coast of the newly discovered sea ( now called Hudson Bay ) , confident he was on his way to the warm waters of the Pacific . 
After three weeks' swift sailing , however , the ship entered an area of shallow marshes and river deltas . 
The ship halted . 
The great `` sea to the westwards '' was a dead end . 
This must have been Hudson's blackest discovery . 
For he seemed to sense at once that before him was no South Sea , but the solid bulk of the North American continent . 
This was the bitter end , and Hudson seemed to know he was destined to failure . 
Feverishly , he tried to brush away this intuition . 
North and south , east and west , back and forth he sailed in the land-locked bay , plowing furiously forward until land appeared , then turning to repeat the process , day after day , week after week . 
Hundreds of miles to the north , the route back to England through the `` Furious Overfall '' was again filling with ice . 
The men were at first puzzled , then angered by the aimless tacking . 
Once more , Juet's complaints were the loudest . 
Hudson's reply was to accuse the mate of disloyalty . 
Juet demanded that Hudson prove his charges in an open trial . 
The trial was held September 10 . 
Hudson , presiding , heard Juet's defense , then called for testimony from crew members . 
Juet had made plentiful enemies , several men stepped forward . 
Hands on Bible , seaman Lodley and carpenter Staffe swore that Juet had tried to persuade them to keep muskets and swords in their cabins . 
Cook Bennett Mathues said Juet had predicted bloodshed on the ship . 
Others added that Juet had wanted to turn the ship homeward . 
Hudson deposed Juet and cut his pay . 
The new mate was Robert Bylot , talented but inexperienced . 
There were other shifts and pay cuts according to the way individuals had conducted themselves . 
The important result , however , was that Juet and Francis Clemens , the deposed boatswain , became Hudson's sworn enemies . 
As Hudson resumed his desperate criss-crossing of the little bay , every incident lessened the crew's respect for him . 
Once , after the Discovery lay for a week in rough weather , Hudson ordered the anchor raised before the sea had calmed . 
Just as it was being hauled inboard , a sea hit the ship . 
Michael Butt and Adame Moore were thrown off the capstan and badly injured . 
The anchor cable would have been lost overboard , but Philip Staffe was on hand to sever it with his axe . 
Thomas Douglas , fifth Earl of Selkirk , a noble humanitarian Scot concerned with the plight of the crofters of his native Highlands , conceived a plan to settle them in the valley of the Red River of the North . 
Since the land he desired lay within the great northern empire of the Hudson's Bay Company , he purchased great blocks of the Comany's stock with the view to controlling its policies . 
Having achieved this end , he was able to buy 116,000 square miles in the valleys of the Red and Assiniboine rivers . 
The grant , which stretched southward to Lake Traverse -- the headwaters of the Red -- was made in May , 1811 , and by October of that year a small group of Scots was settling for the winter at York Factory on Hudson Bay . 
Thus at the same time that William Henry Harrison was preparing to pacify the aborigines of Indiana Territory and winning fame at the battle of Tippecanoe , Anglo-Saxon settlement made a great leap into the center of the North American continent to the west of the American agricultural frontier . 
Seven hundred miles south of York Factory , at `` the Forks '' of the Red and the Assiniboine , twenty-three men located a settlement in August 1812 . 
By October the little colony about Fort Douglas ( present-day Winnipeg ) numbered 100 .
