Motivation: The motivation of this assignment is to get practice with sequence
labeling tasks such as Named Entity Recognition. More precisely you will experiment with the
CRF model and various features on a subset for a TEXT corpus

Problem Statement: The goal of the assignment is to build an NER system for IDENTIFICATION of 7 
named entity- Location, Person, Organization, Money, Percent, Date, Time. The input of the code will 
be a set of tokenized sentences and the output will be a label for each token in the sentence. 
Labels can be Location, Person, Organization, Money, Percent, Date, Time  signifying named entities.

Training Data: the ouput of assignment 5a

The Task: You need to write a sequence tagger that labels the given sentences in a  test file.

Suggestion: You may have multiple features space before and after  the target word before giving final label to it i.e., context information.

Perform switching off subsets of your features and see the degradation of performance.
You can perform an alternative experiment by incrementally adding sets of features. 
Either way the goal is to identify the most useful features (and the value of each feature) for this task. 
In addition to quantitative results, also look at specific examples and try to qualitatively understand value of each feature 
by noticing which examples each feature helps in.

Output: NE labeled test file

Submit the POS tagging  by  Saturday, 9th September 2018.

2. Submit the code by Monday, 5th November 2018. Submit your code is in a .zip file named in the format <MISNo_Assign6>.zip. Make sure that when we run “unzip yourfile.zip” the following files are produced in the present working directory:
•MISNO_Assign6_Code.py
•run.sh
•Writeup_MISNO_Assign6.pdf
•Precision, Recall, F-measure for each category

What is allowed? What is not?

1. The assignment is to be done individually.

2. You should use Python for this assignment.

3. You must not discuss this assignment with anyone outside the class. 
Make sure you mention the names in your write-up in case you discuss with anyone from within 
the class outside your team. Follow the academic integrity carefully.

4. Please do not search the Web for solutions to the problem.
